Architecture_Design.md, before:

# Wrist2Whats - Architecture Design

## Overview
The architecture consists of three layers:
1. **Garmin Watch App** (ConnectIQ)
2. **iPhone Companion App**
3. **Cloud Backend (Python on VPS)**

### Communication Flow
Garmin App → iPhone App → Cloud Server → Messaging Interface → Recipient

### Technologies
- Garmin ConnectIQ SDK (Monkey C)
- Swift (iPhone companion app)
- Python (Flask/FastAPI backend)
- Telegram Bot API integration
- Discord Webhook integration
- WhatsApp transport (to be finalized: Business Platform API, approved gateway, or iOS relay)
- Docker container on VPS (Ubuntu)

### Authentication Design
- **Token Authority (Backend)**: Dedicated auth service/module issues short-lived access tokens to the iPhone companion app after it authenticates using the user’s Garmin account + device-bound secret. Tokens are stored only on the phone’s secure enclave/keychain.
- **Request Signing**: Every HTTPS request from the iPhone to the backend includes the bearer token plus an HMAC signature over the payload using a per-device key. Backend validates token and signature before processing `/send`.
- **Garmin ↔ iPhone pairing**: During initial pairing, the phone provisions a device-specific secret onto the watch (encrypted via ConnectIQ storage). Watch triggers always include a nonce so the phone can reject replays before forwarding to the backend.
- **Key Rotation / Revocation**: Backend tracks active device keys; compromised devices can be revoked by deleting their key records, forcing re-enrollment.
- **Transport Security**: All outbound links (Garmin BLE channel, HTTPS between phone and backend, backend → messaging APIs) must use TLS or platform-encrypted channels. Certificates on the VPS are managed with automated renewal (e.g., Let’s Encrypt).

## Deployment Diagram
```mermaid
graph TD
    A[Garmin Watch] -->|BLE/ConnectIQ| B[iPhone App]
    B -->|HTTPS + Token| C[Python Backend VPS]
    C -->|Auth Module| C
    C -->|WhatsApp Transport| D[Recipient via WhatsApp]
    C -->|Telegram Bot API| E[Recipient via Telegram]
    C -->|Discord Webhook| F[Recipient via Discord]
```

Commit message:

Refactor: Update architecture design document
Co-authored-by: itay.benben <itay.benben@gmail.com>

Architecture_Design.md, after:

# Wrist2Whats - Architecture Design

## Components
- **Watch app** collects the user’s contact/template choice and sends a trigger over BLE.
- **iPhone app** receives the trigger, fills in the message, and calls the backend.
- **Python backend** validates the request, picks the right transport, and talks to external services.

## Message Path
1. Watch → iPhone (BLE / ConnectIQ).
2. iPhone → Backend (`/send` over HTTPS with auth).
3. Backend → WhatsApp / Telegram / Discord.
4. Backend returns status to the iPhone so the watch can show success/failure.

## Authentication (Design Only)
- Phone authenticates once and stores a device token from the backend; the token sits in the iOS keychain.
- Every `/send` call includes the bearer token plus an HMAC signed with the device secret.
- Backend keeps a table of device keys so tokens can be rotated or revoked.
- All hops (BLE + HTTPS) stay encrypted; VPS certificates are managed automatically.

## Messaging Integrations
- **WhatsApp**: choose one path (Meta Business API, an approved relay, or an iOS automation relay) and plug it into the backend’s messaging layer.
- **Telegram**: Bot API sendMessage.
- **Discord**: Webhooks.

## Deployment Diagram
```mermaid
graph TD
    A[Garmin Watch] --> B[iPhone App]
    B -->|HTTPS + Token| C[Python Backend]
    C -->|Auth + Messaging Layer| C
    C --> D[WhatsApp Transport]
    C --> E[Telegram Bot]
    C --> F[Discord Webhook]
```
